In this lecture you will write your first
JUnit tests to do that launched the
eclipse ide select a workspace once you are
on the eclipse dashboard go to the file
menu, say new java project. Give your project
name let's call it
hello Junit click finish by default
eclipse creates only one source folder
called SRC. Will be creating another
source folder by right-clicking on
the project say new source folder name it
test this is the first step and we are
doing test-driven development and we're
writing unit tests which we always
should the first step is to create a
source folder called test and we will be
placing all our test classes for the
source code in src into the test folder
The requirement we have on hand is very
simple we need to create a greeting
class which will have one public method
which will return which will take a name
as input parameters and it i'll return hello
plus that name. Right click on SRC folder say
new interface call it greeting always go
to interfaces
select a package
com.bharath.trainings.junit you can do
whatever package name you want hit finish
In this interface will have one public
method which is string greet takes a
string as well name. let's create
implementation class right click on the
package say new class
greetingimpl click on the add button
type in greeting to select the interface
for our class select it ,hit ok click on
finish. We have the default
implementation to move this to do line
by hitting control D and this method
will simply return hello space
plus the input parameter which is name
Now to test this method we're going to write
a test class created as class create one
test method which will assert for this
result hello and then the name which we
pass-in to create your first junit right
click on the implementation class say New
junit test case if you don't see this
option here go to other and you will
find it select the junit test case option
by default eclipse chooses your class name
and it apends it with a test for your
test class which is a good convention
the package name is also same as the package
name you have for your source class
the important piece here is the source
folder instead of src will change it
to test when you follow that we have
created hit finish eclipse prompts you to
add junit for library to your build path
hit okay
eclipse will add the junit for jar to your
class path, so here is your test that
eclipse has generated, it has imported the static
assert statements which we can use from
the assert class and there is one test
method called test
let's rename it let's call it greet
should return a valid output give your
test very meaningful names so that any
developer who reads through your test should understand
what the test is exactly its a great
way of documenting your code now if i
run this test by right-clicking on this
class go to run as junit our test will fail
as you can see this is the junit runner
inside eclipse and error we can see here
in the failure trace under the failure
race it says not yet implemented this is coming
from our fail method that we are calling
here from the assert from the junit API hit control
D remove that fail method
start writing our test by creating a new
instance or greetingimpl assign
this to greeting interface object
greeting Greeting.greet
passin junit as the parameter here find
assign this statement to a variable by  hitting
ctrl 1 assign statement to new local
variable let's call it results now let's
assert first assert i'm going to do is assert
not null to see if this result is not
null before we do any other assersions.
the second and the last assert i'm going
to do here is to compare
the results that are coming back with the
results we are expecting asset equals
result goes in as the second parameter
the actual goes in on the right the
expected is junit or hello junit now to
re-run this test you can right-click
here in the test window or the junit
window and click run, so everything is green
we don't see any failure trace anymore
to make this test fail I can simply
remove this junit piece here save it re-run
it failed and that failure trace clearly
shows to double-click on it expected
is hello
but actually what came back is hello
Junit its that simple to write a junit
test create a test folder  right click
on your implementation class create new
junit test case then give your method a
meaningful name and call the actual
method under test by creating an
instance of your class and
then use the assert statements to assert the
actual results versus the results
that you are expecting.